hello world and welcome to kona at the
facts extending the script series and in
this series i want to talk about stance
script for After Effects of course and
if you follow my channel you know I go
into details about how to write
expressions and how to use it well in
this series of course I'm going to go
into detail on how to use the same
script and if you're wondering was the
difference between the two basically
when you're using expression you're
changing the properties or automating
animation from the layers property and
with expression you can't really access
a certain thing so you can access the
composition menu you can't create a new
composition or can you control things
like the timeline or the time indicator
or anything beyond that layer property
with a sanscrit you can just about
access anything inside of After Effects
and control it and code it in a way that
it does what you want it to do so in
short if you just want to make some
animation and you want to do it in an
automatic way you're better off using
expression unless you're doing something
more complicated we're involved creating
new layers or you're creating something
beyond that layer property so the
evening xs/s and script you will go
inside of the file menu and you would go
into import no no no script down here
I'm crazy and you would go to open
script editor but for whatever reason if
I try to do it it give me some problem
so I would have to open it up from a
shortcut on my desktop you might have to
do that too but just know that this
might be a common problem I don't know
so right now we're in x10 script toolkit
which is really hard to say for me for
whatever reason and what we're going to
do is we're gonna write a simple hello
world something people usually do when
they're learning a new language so if I
type in alert now this might look weird
but I'm pretty sure you've seen alert
before maybe on some type of annoying
website where you go to the site and
forever reason they use a pop-up box and
now I want you to leave that site we're
gonna use the same type of code or a
function in here by writing alert and
inside these parentheses and quotes
writing hello world so if I write that
and go to this little play button I get
hello world this is cool but as you know
this is only working inside of exam
script and what we really want to do we
want this application to talk to After
Effects
so when able to do that we're going to
go up to here and we're gonna change
this into our After Effects version and
right now even though I get 2018 I'm
using 2017 mostly because of some GUI
issues so if I was to go back to this
little play button and run the script
now go back to After Effects I get
nothing
that's weird
now if I click on this run script I'll
go back to artifacts and I get hello
world right here and there's a few other
ways I can talk to after fax and as far
as text I could get rid of this and
write write and push play and if I go on
my Windows and go into info since
something should have been written there
let me put your play again and I get
hello world and I push it twice and I
don't know why I didn't come up the
first time but I got hello world twice
and if I was to go in here and type in
Elle capitalize and for right line and I
push play I'll go back in after fax this
should have been a new line but it's not
giving me a new line
so let me see if I push play again there
we go let me write something else and it
doesn't have to be worse or in a string
in order for you to actually use it you
can push 5 plus 5 and it should give me
10 yep there we go and one more thing if
I want to get rid of this that's on this
information panel or window I go in here
and I type in clear output with a
capital o
semicolon push play again
about the artifacts and this is all
clear and that's really the basics of
running a Sanskrit and of course there's
more stuff that Stan scripts and do then
write hello world and right in the
information window and I'll go over that
more in the future tutorial but this is
just to get you started and so you can
kind of understand what's going on oh
that's you enjoy the video and if you do
I hope you check out my previous videos
into the next time peace out world